---
layout: default
---

## Report AIAA conference

### Technical sessions

One of the best parts of the conference. Lots of simulatenous tracks (10-20)
about a lot of different topics.

### Monday

I went to the Simulation Algorithms I track in the morning. It was ok but there
were three talks in a row from the same group, two of which were from the same
presenter so there was a lot of repetition. The main idea discussed in this talk
is how to deal with the parabolic terms. What they did is reformulate the
parabolic terms into a first order system by introducing a new unknow so that
they get a differential-algebraic system (DAE): an hyperbolic equation plus an
extra equation. I already knew this trick: it is used widely in DG to solve
diffusion problems. The interesting thing that no-one in DG does is to add a
time derivative to the second equation such that instead of a DAE system you get
two hyperbolic equations. This time derivative vanishes when the solution
reaches steady state. They showed how to extend this to very simple unsteady
advection-diffusion problems and solving this using an implicit method. It was
ok.

In the afternoon I went to the panel "A vision for CFD in 2030". It was very
boring so I switched to a talk about high-order immersed-boundary methods and
then found on the way out one of the speakers from the track in the morning and
talked with them.

### Tuesday

Tusday morning i went to a talk about aero-thermal structural simulation. It
wasn't at all what I expected. It was about the optimization of real missiles
from the launch till they hit the target. It was very interesting. They solve a
lot of very different physics using very simple modles but study a lot of flight
conditions and optimize the materials, thickness, position of components inside
the missile, maneouvrability, center of mass... It was a nice peak into
industry.

Then I went to the shape and topolgy optimization track. People there were
really good and i learnt a lot about discrete and continuous optimization. I
skiped one of the talks to go to one in the Fluis Structure interaction track
called an ALE based hybrid meshfree local RBF Cartesian FD scheme for
incompressible flows around moving boundaries. The talk sucked, the speaker
talked very silently, it seemed like he was seeing the slides for the first time
in his life. The description of its method was unclear, and the postprocessing
was not very good either so the results looked really unimpressive. I should
have stayed in the optimization track. After the talk i went back there and
stayed till the end.

I would have liked to go to the high-lift prediction workshop but it overlapped
with the optimization track so i missed it. Still the second part was in the
afternoon. We went to the airbus lunch where I met some people from the
Simulation track from monday (from KTH) and the optimization track from tuesday
(from "the" Johns Hopkins university). After the conference we went all together
for a drink.

### Wednesday

On wednesday I had my presentation so I revised it and stayed in the CFD Methods
track. There were some interesting talks about hybridized DG for compressible
flows (from two guys from AICES). One is a PhD student in Georg May's group and
his presentation was awesome. He explained the method very slowly and clearly
and showed really good results. He explained the pros and cons very good and I
learned a lot from the way he presented them.

Afterwards I went with the same PhD students from the previous days and also the
guy from AICES and a guy from DLR to a brewery and then to have dinner. In total
I meat about a group of 6-8 really nice people and it was good to hang out with
them.

### Thursday

On thursday I went to the Simulatition Algorithms track in the morning and
afterward to a fluid-particle interaction talk. That talk was about experimental
results. I wasn't expecting this but it was still very nice. I also saw two
talks about optimization afterwards.

In the afternoon there were two tracks that I wanted to watch: simulation
algorithms track and hihg-order methids track. I had to jump between them and
missed some talks. One of the talks was very bad but I used that time to write
this.

After the conference we plan today on going to the Aquarium with the other PhD
students.

### Friday

On friday morning I plan to go to the 
Analysis Methods track
Large Eddy simulation track
Galerkin methods track

in the afternoon I plan to go to the
turbulence simulations track
shock-boundary layer interactions track
